---
layout: post
title: Dreams and their effects
date: 2024-12-12 06:27:00 +1100
category: Thoughts
---

Not sure why I even need to add this for my own diary of all things (I'm mostly writing this for myself), but for anyone who is reading this, trigger warning: suicide and death. 

Do you ever have dreams where you wake up and you felt like you had just lived something intense and real?

To go through my dream again would feel like re-surfacing trauma, not gonna lie. It was really intense for no reason. Soo..

I'll start from where I remember things. I'll layout the story so far;
Setting is my old school for some reason, we were hosting some sort of party/event and a lot of random people, not really relevant to the location people were there and there were a few cliques and possibly a few hundred people that I didn't really recognise but vaguely knew them as a friend of a friend (I was one of the people hosting this party, but more of a side runner than a front runner). There were two cliques that were important to this story, a bunch of loser bullies that were kind of pathetic in their own right (not tasteful bullying if you know what I mean) but confident in themselves enough to bully this other group who were more emotionally vulnerable and were possibly on the LGBT side of things by the way they dressed and presented themselves. Throughout the day I would always see them pick on them for no reason just for the fun of it and I would always just turn a blind eye to this stuff because secretly I was laughing too. This happened quite a few times throughout the day, to the point the vulnerable group congregated together and sat away from everyone else. 

So the way this party was laid out, we had different rooms for different activities, and a lot of the activities on the second floor were more relaxed and less intense, so this is where they sat themselves at. Eventually, an accident had occured right in front of me, and someone had fallen to their death. It was quite a commical death at first, as for some reason there was a huge gap in the floor that she had somehow just fell through. Not that it was impossible to miss but definitely difficult to fall through, but she managed to somehow and I actually saw her fall and break her neck. I had been so shocked by this, maybe a little taken back. I walked away feeling the dread of this death and all the emotions that come along with it. It was like a gut punch from all the thoughts about all her closest people around her and all the things and feelings that cannot be shared with her anymore, since nobody will be there to receive it. Maybe I just have an inherent fear of death, but I felt sick and needed a breather. This death was not known by the party straight away since it was on the backside of the building where less people were likely to stumble upon it. 

I walked to the other side of the building, where incidentally something happened again and it was someone from that same group of friends. This person was alone just leaning on the railing and so I sat down closeby just to catch my thoughts. I thought she was too. This area was overseeing the common area for the party, basketball courts where people were playing and a lot of people downstairs just below us were all enjoying each other's company, while me and this young girl were grieving I guess. I looked down for a second, and suddenly I hear a really quick and sudden movement in front of me, and suddenly this girl is leaping to her death, and this one hit even harder. I hear the splat but I don't look, but the imagery is already there ingrained in my brain. How could you do this to yourself? The amount of strength and will power to throw it all away just like that baffled me and there must me more to this. It was a loud commotion, and since the ambulance had been called for the other girl already, there was a stretcher there to pick her up and the other girl and I saw them wheel them out while I just sat there shocked and possibly on the verge of being broken. Why had she done this, what could have caused so much pain internally they she needed to take this approach? God, I was so heart broken by this thought but I really couldn't believe my eyes. 

And then her group of friends all from the back of the build heard the news and headed straight over. All of them leaning across the railing, speechless and maybe a little too aloof at this sight. I told them they're too close to the railing and none of them listened. Suddenly one of them moved, they climbed the railing and without looking behind her she jumped. One by one, like lemmings they followed each other. What.. the.. fuck.. as the last one jumped off, they made eye contact with me a gave me the look of regret, she probably did not want to end it but she kept her oath. It felt unreal, questions spurring in my head why had they all done this? 

Why now of all times, who did this? Could this have been prevented? I looked back at all the times I turned a blind eye, and I felt like shit. Who have I become, who am I today and why has it all changed? If I'm not doing what I truely believe in, then I'm failing to do the one thing that I sought out to do. By now, I had realised it was just a dream and was trying to understand why this was being shown to me. What the message I was supposed to be taking from this? I was so greatly impacted by all these fake deaths, but it all felt so real. My take away is that I should start to realise my actions have weight, and no action is still an action. If my life was like a choose your own adventure, right now I'm taking all of the worst and un-rewarding paths. The path of least resisitance is not a life worth living in my opinion. Remember to take the path that you think is the right one, even if it means you have to wake up at 6am everyday. What exactly do you live for?

Dreams are fun and I miss having them. This was one of the first nights in a long time where the dream was so vivid it carried over into real life. I'm afraid of the day where I will not be able to distinguish a dream from real life. That'll be the day heh. 