---
layout: post
title: Control, and the fear of losing it
date: 2024-09-04 15:21:20 +1000
category: Thoughts
---

I feel like this is something I'm always constantly thinking about. Control over my life, control over my circumstances, controlling my future, controlling the things around me and making sure things go "my way", controlling how people act around me, controlling my weight, my money, the way I react to things mentally and physically, the list goes on. They say frequent actions become habit, and habits create a life... But what happens when I start losing control of my own actions? When I start doing things that I don't normally do, or stop thinking the way I normally act, losing my memory or losing grasp of reality, losing control of myself, am I inadvertently creating a new me? 

It's something I've always feared when I was younger but something that only starts to creep up on you as you age. I like to think I've passed that stage where I let it get to me, but it's easy to say you don't care when you're just at the start of your life, I still have probably 30+ years ahead of me realistically. I should be more scared about this, shouldn't I? 

It's a fear that came to the forefront of my thoughts when I did some silly stuff, it gave me a fright of possible schizophrenia and made me realise maybe I have boderline personality disorder. It was my first time, set and setting was not perfect but I was safe so I didn't mind, but it was after the fact. The idea that I couldn't really hear myself think, it felt like there was nothing in my brain of mine, but rather a pile of flesh that just reguritates whatever it hears. I could only hear the words of other people, the people around me and their thoughts (or what I thought were their thoughts) and I could never hear myself. Why could I not think for myself, why could I not hear my own thoughts, why do I hear everyone else but my own thoughts? It made me think about who I am as a person, who do I live for, who do I listen to and take advice from. It made me realise I do not control my own life, I am being controlled by others. I care more about other's opinions than my own. I started blaming myself for this, but I also detached myself in order to teach myself a lesson. Present self blaming past self for putting myself in this situation, me not even knowing who I am anymore, me not being able to fend for myself, me not doing what I personally think is right. It's like my body had a mind of it's own. I felt like an alien, like a stranger to myself.

For me, I love to disect how certain substances affect me; I like to keep a mental, anecdotal and somewhat objective note, based on observations on my own understandings of myself and observations on how it affects people before and after, I could go on all day about this kind stuff but it's all anecdotal. I do however, like to make my own judgements and match it with other people's research, especially scientific ones (even though I'm not smart enough for this stuff). I think it's good to understand it on my own level, just as a way to understand what I'm in for in a trip and how to "prepare" for the worst in case it happens and me understanding how it works helps me understand what I'm dealing with. I feel like I'm going to digress a little bit, but basically; [here's a study on psylocibin](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-07624-5). I'm not smart enough to understand everything that was written here, but my understanding is that these substances will "desynchonise" your perception of self, time and space, giving you new perspectives on life. My own anecdotal understanding was that you will come to conclusions no matter what. I always know not to conclude on something unless it's rational and I have enough evidence to confirm or conclude on a certain thing. I guess in other words I'm very inconclusive, until I gather enough evidence, until I feel like I've gone through all the possible outcomes.
That night, I would always conclude my thoughts, no matter what, even if I didn't have enough evidence. Like when I couldn't hear my own thoughts, I know in hindsight that its because I'm a figure head and I have responsibilities to uphold and I'm always in the spotlight so whatever I do and say has an impact (I helped out with a few student clubs), and I believe it is just what I believe in too, your actions are seen by all so make sure you act accordingly. Instead of thinking about it, I created my own delusion in my head that I'm going insane, I can't think or hear myself because I have BPD and I'm getting schizophrenia because I read online that these substances will enhance or "kickstart" these mental illnesses. And I actually believed it, and I still do to this day. It was my worst nightmare coming true, the idea of losing myself and having absolutely no control over it, it's just something you're born with so good luck with that. I've learned to live with this fear, but I know one day it will come to bite me in the ass, but thats a problem for future me. 

One observation on myself is that I'm more complacent after taking that substance. I'm less likely to get stuck in the details of it all and more willing to let go of things (although maybe it's moreso about not getting too attached) and I came to the conclusion that I don't have any friends (and by thinking this, I treat everyone the same). Is this for the better? Maybe, I feel like theres a lot to unpack with a statement like that, but I'm more happy and willing to give my happy energy back to the world. Sharing happiness is probably the best gift you can give someone. 

## Some things I do to keep control

Writing down in my diary I feel like helps deal with control. It helps me finish off the day I guess. Writing every thing that you did or thought during that day, kind of helps you move on from it. On days where I forget to write in my diary, I'll start to become more complacent and lazy, and when I get back to writing in my diary, I'll start writing and be like "this feels unproductive" and I always end up writing less or end up doing something else, which I find funny. I've learned from personal experience that memory is not what you remember, but what you think about and how often you think about it. The more you think about something, the more you will remember it, essentially creating a memory. 

Planning ahead. I have a calendar and I try to have a daily planner. I put post-it notes on my bathroom mirror to help remind myself of what I should be thinking. 

Doing things that fullfill me.


