---
layout: post
title: Poached
date: 2025-08-23
category: Thoughts

---

> The lowly young looking asian guy on his phone, possibly filo therefore possibly Christian, an easy target to poach for our small local bible studies event.

I've had one too many encounters like this, where really bright, friendly and bubbly personalities approach me saying I look like a nice lad and begin by asking how I am, what I'm up to and if I am potentially religious. These people are young catholics, usually poaching for an upcoming mega event with (usually free) food, music and entertainment, usually poaching to gather more numbers to create a bigger army of poachers to find fresh new blood for their yearly harvest events. 

I think relgion is a touchy subject so I'll keep it brief, I don't know what I believe but I know for sure we're humans on this earth and so we should treat each other with love and respect, treat people how you want to be treated. 

When people come to poach me into their religion, I actually don't mind giving them the time of day because sometimes people are just up for a good conversation, someone to just listen to them or someone to speak to. I know myself I've had great conversations about nothing from these encounters (not even about religion most of the time, because I'm not really interested in debating the truthfullness of the Bible or the Quran). I've had plenty of conversations with Christians and Muslims, instead of trying to understand the religion, I try to understand the person because I'm curious how life lead them into this path of sharing the teachings of what they believe which I find is a usually a path for the lost. And on the side, I'm also curious their methods of approaching people and their pitch, because they are essentially sales-people pitching their religion. 

I've found that a lot of these people are just great people and want to share what they believe, it's strange really because they're all really well presented, upstanding and interesting people. I say they are lost because I've talked to so many of them that say "I was down a bad path in life until I learned about X religion", or "I was lost but ever since I picked up a bible, God gave me another chance to redeem myself for my sins"; it seems religion was their saviour from a bad time in their life. I am not a psychologist or anything, but I'm a firm believer that some religions (speaking more for Catholicism since I grew up with this religion) stemmed as a coping mechanism for our existsance on our earth, and a lot of these people are great examples of this. Relgion helps us ease our mind on things we probably shouldn't need to understand, why do we exist right now, why are we concious, why do we deserve to live, what is our purpose? A lot, if not all, of these questions are answered in some way and it helps forget about things we don't/shouldn't need to think about (because it's simply unproductive). I'm not trying to denounce any religion, deep down I still believe some upper entity but there is simply no way to prove it, and God knows (lol) if that was just brainwashing from childhood. 

Andy, the one who approached me today, had the exact same approach as most (saying I looked like a person who can hold a conversation) we had a quick conversation about why he is approaching me and talked about his little social gathering and asked me to fill out a quick little survey about how I was feeling at that moment (and my information as well) and we had a quick little conversation about his phone and then he kinda explained his relationship with Christianity. He would to go various churches in hopes for people to explain the religion to him, but he never explicitly explained why he did that, but maybe it was to break appart their reasoning or maybe he was genuinely curious and wanted to know more. He mentioned he would have hour long sessions with pastors and priests one of them being 4 hours. I can only assume why he is in his position but never struck me as depressed or anything so maybe he is a rare case lol. 

Note: I never ask explicitly why they believe in God to avoid that lengthy conversation, because I know these guys LOVE to talk. 

Maybe these people are just passionate, but I really enjoy these random conversations with people. Deep down there is a small inkling in me that these people are going down the wrong path in life pursuing a path pushed onto them by someone else, but what do I know. Maybe their religion will make them a happier person in the long run, more than they would have without it, who am I to take that away from them? Probably not a great person I think. But part of me thinks this is just a distraction from other things in their life and it is just escapism, but I don't want to get into that. Lots of landmines in a discussion like this so I'll just leave it at that. 

Please note, all of this is anecdotal. 

Happy to have a conversation if you want to change my mind about any of this. I would love to indulge!