---
layout: post
title: Cold Weather and old Australian homes
date: 2025-08-18
category: Thoughts

---

Inhibition of the cold is something that I desperately want to get over. When winter time comes, I become too complacent and lazy, I start to lose out on progress in my life, especially going on daily walks, exercise, meditation and even reading, simply because I'm too cold to do anything but sit in my room where the harsh elements don't insult my nerves and senses.

When I moved out for a year, it was the first time in my life where I didn't slow down progress in my life (just doing things I want to do), or rather I never came across this issue during the winter time and this made me think that maybe it wasn't inherently "me" that was the issue and it was something else. By the time I moved back into my old house, all of those feelings returned as expected when winter came and this time I had some context/life experience to try to understand why this was. It was a multitude of things I think, but I think the main one that I could pinpoint pretty well was the temperature.

For starters, our house does not have great insulation and it gets **SO** cold at night, a few years back I had to buy pricey blankets from ikea (they were a game changer). In general though, some observations in my current home is that I have to wear warm clothes inside (pants and jacket), any of the tiled floors are super cold to touch (especially the toilet flooring), it's cold inside my room despite having a mini heater (my PC) and it genuinely feels as cold as it does outside sometimes, especially when we don't have the heater on. 

I did a bit of research into this topic, and generally a lot of house development in Australia do not have good standards when it comes to insulation. We have a brick home (which I think are good insulators?), but the windows are what they call "*single glazed*" and loses all of it's heat, and you can definitely tell because when you touch the window it's cold as hell and there's a little draft of the winter chills when you open the curtains. But I digress; I've wanted to get around this and looked into different ways to insulate the house better. One idea was to replace the windows, however just getting a window replaced with a double glazed window can cost up to $1kAUD and we would need to replace a lot of windows, and the next best solution was blinds. I did more research into blinds and there was a type of blind that was perfect for my situation, something inexpensive and productive; it's called honeycomb blinds. This website does a great job of explaining how this all works along with little tables with effectiveness for different blinds [https://www.consumer.org.nz/articles/curtains](https://www.consumer.org.nz/articles/curtains){:target="_blank"}. I've been convinced to buy these, and I've been slowly investing into honeycombed blinds for my room and convincing my parents to buy some for the rest of the house, which take advantage of using air as an insulator, whatever that means.  

Just for your reference, I've been buying HOPPVALS honeycomb blinds from IKEA [https://www.ikea.com/au/en/p/hoppvals-cellular-blind-white-60290624/](https://www.ikea.com/au/en/p/hoppvals-cellular-blind-white-60290624/){:target="_blank"}. Fun fact, these are NOT the dimensions as they say... 80cm wide is probably actually 81-83~cm which is really frustrating because I had a window that was like 240cm exact fit and these did not fit. I had to put one of them in front of the other, losing effectiveness on heat retention. On another window I ended up cutting one of them with a hand saw. 

I've kinda gone off the rails, but I think I like to make excuses of me not being productive (aka not doing what I want to do) because of the cold weather; it's inhibiting, it is miserable, it is physically painful. The thought spawned during a quick smoko in the warm sunlight with little noise besides the rustling of the trees, chirping of the birds, the white noise of heat on my eyelids, a little buzz from the nicotine, just thinking about everything and nothing all at once. I forgot how much I loved that sensation and hadn't done it since... I think Summer, when the weather was more inviting and warmer. I'm just waiting for the weather to get warmer so I can start doing more spontaneous adventures and without being perturbed by the cold. 

