---
layout: post
title: PAX 2024
date: 2024-10-14 20:31:00 +1000
category: Journal
---

PAX 2024; Penny Arcade Expo!  
The mega gaming convention; mecca for gaming fans and it's in Australia! Sad part is it's in Melbourne and I live in Sydney so I have a shill out a few hundred bucks if I want to visit.
Here is my fun little adventure and thoughts about PAX, Melbourne and travelling alone! 
 
**<ins>Months leading to PAX:</ins>**  
Hmm, nothing particularly interests me this year, I think I can skip out I don't think FOMO will hit me that badly. They have this Portal 2 dev having a talk, but I just watch the livestream. 

**<ins>Weeks leading to PAX</ins>**    
Steam is coming? Why would they announce that so late, are they hiding some cool news? Surely it's not just about the SteamDeck... maybe it's about Deadlock? Maybe theres a new game on the horizon? Maybe theres cool freebies they'll only hand out at PAX? Oh man, FOMO really starting to hit now

**<ins>2 Weeks Leading to PAX</ins>**  
I have acquired a 3 day pass online and it seems legit, I have booked the cheapest hostel, flights are kinda expensive tho. Instead, I booked a train ticket to Melbourne (cheaper than the flights at that time) and a flight to Sydney via Avalon (cheapest flight because I aint taking the train back), 2 things I have been avoiding when travelling to Melbourne because it does not seem worth the hassle, but I think now is the perfect opporunity to try this experience and not feel so terrible doing so because it's a punishment for giving into temptation. I also have to sell my KNOCKOUT ticket, which is the week before because I don't want to go and I'd rather spend my money going to PAX!

**<ins>The Night before PAX</ins>**    
Did jack all the whole day, was too restless to do anything but I had to wait until 7pm at night to do anything. I think I spent most of the day just looking at videos of what the train ride will be like lol, shoutouts to [Rory][rory-yt], he makes really fun and entertaining videos on everything trains. Anyways, I was keen to experience the ride; I was wondering what the seats, the view, the food, the service was like, basically everything, I guess! And an even cooler coincidence, we got to ride a coach/bus to Campbelltown because the train lines in between Central and Campbelltown were being worked on. Anyways, ever since my Japan trip I figured that the most annoying thing about the trip is lugging your luggage around. I also don't wear many clothes to begin with and it's not gonna be that cold, so I packed light. 
 ```
Accomodation, flights, everything booked
Pax ticket DONT FORGET!!!
Camera
	Maybe batteries?
	Film or non film camera? 
		If film, need film 
Backpack
	Clothes (Wear in layers, but its probably not that cold)
		Hoodie
		2 Shirts
		3 pairs of socks
		3 underwear
		Shorts
		Pants
		Sleeping shorts
		Sleeping shirt
		Earphones for sleeping
		Face mask for sleeping
		Toothbrush + paste
Shoulder bag
	Face towel? 
	Power bank
	USB C cables 
	Chargers to plug in
Keys to House HIDE THEM IN BAG. 
On me:
    Wallet
    Phone
    Keys to house
    Earbuds
```
I was somewhat scared of the hostel, because I've never experienced it before and I wasn't sure what the culture was like. There could be thieves, intimidating people, too much noise, no lockers, terrible toilet/shower facilities, terrible sleeping conditions, the list goes on, but I guess I had some contingency plans and was willing to sacrifice on a few of these things for the price, the location and free breakfast (lol). I think my main draws were that I actually had a proper bed to sleep on, they had proper toilets/showers and if there was a locker or place to put my stuff. The rest I could potentially live with, but these were the three important things I needed. 

Side tracking a bit here; I'm a huge Uniqlo shopper because I love that the clothes they sell are very subtle with branding and they're basic, cheap and generally last quite a long time and I guess are good value for the product you get. I had been eyeing this one jacket for the longest time, the [Coach jacket](https://www.uniqlo.com/au/en/products/E466732-000). I always rock up to the Blacktown store to check if they have any cheap sales and "faulty" items to yoink because I'm cheap as hell. Eventually these items will go on sale so I decided I'd be patient and wait for the coach jacket to go on sale before jumping on it, and the day I leave for Melbourne, I get an email saying there were sales for Uniqlo, and lo and behold the Coach Jacket is going on sale! AND even better, my old Uniqlo jogging pants also went on sale! Which is also great because my current ones have a hole on my backside, I think because when I ride my bike with these pants it chaffes, and so I HAVE to buy these items before I leave for Melbourne before they run out of stock or the sale ends. Strangely enough, there aren't any coach jackets left at Blacktown. It's strange, just a week ago they had so much stock and suddenly they're all gone? I'm suspecting this is some kind of tactic by Uniqlo to boost sales in specific stores by pretending these items are out of stock in specific stores. Although I find it strange the one store that probably needs the boosting is this one, so maybe my theory doesn't have much value to it. I was able to bug the joggers however, and so I decide maybe we just buy it at Melbourne! It's kind of frustrating the timing, because I didn't want to have to pack too many clothes and now I'm buying huge ass joggers and a new jacket. Coming home will be a pain since space is not a luxury currently. 

Anyways, get to Central to catch my bus to Campbelltown, I arrive 15 minutes early and realise I'm actually almost late for checking in. The line was really short and it seemed like most people were already on the bus to my suprise. I had been playing at Purikura for the past hour or so I could have checked in way earlier lol.

<ins>Coach to Campbelltown</ins>  
- Typical coach, had usb ports but no charing nice non-reclinable seats and shades and typical aircon/lights controller overhead. Fun little ride to Campbelltown.

We get off the bus and hop straight into the train. So it's 4 seats in each row split into 2 sides, and some guy is already there, and I had no clue if I was in the window or the isle seat, I genuinely was so confused by the icons they used on the overhead storage for what seat was what, that I just gave up. The guy was already sitting in the window seat and so I sat in the isle. While I was inspecting the seats that I had already prior knowledge of because of good ole' friend [Rory][rory-yt], the guy next to me was so surprised at the foot rests which were built into the other chair and were genuinely terrible. From there, we started conversation and apparently he was headed to PAX as well, which a bunch of UTS people, I think they were part of a game dev class? He actually thought I was one of them, I guess funny coincidence since I was also going to PAX and am very interested in game design and we just talked about gaming and stuff. It was all just your regular small talk. He was an international student from Vietnam studying game design and that fact just stuck out like a sore thumb to me. What a waste of money, to come all the way to Australia to learn about gaming in a country that does not have a gaming industry, rarely puts out any good games and that does not have any future job prospects at all. This guy must be an idiot or is rich, is what I thought to myself. Not to take a dump on his character or anything, sometimes we're young and make mistakes, and he is very nice and humble so I'll give him that. Regardless, time to get onto the train ride. 

<ins>Train to Melbourne</ins>   
- Taking this train was a terrible mistake. DO NOT ride this train unless you get a sleeper cabin. This was NOT enjoyable in the slightest. The seats might actually be designed for torture and preventing sleep to punish you for not buying the sleeper cabin. It had a shallow recline angle, terrible headrest, not enough leg room to stretch, uncomfortable cushoning, and not only that but the train rocks so much throughout the ride and our carriage kept squeeking throughout the night, making it almost impossible to sleep. Not only that, but there absolutely no power outlets on the train and no wifi and since we're going through the country side there was no signal at all. This train is so ancient man. The food wasn't that good either, $13.5 a small portion of microwave ready meals. I think the only fun thing about this experience was the fact that it was shared amongst other fellow passengers, and it was fun to talk to the people around me. 


## Day 1 of PAX2024
Not getting a lick of sleep, we arrive in Melbourne, Southern Cross station at around 7:30am, arriving earlier than scheduled. It's freezing! I send my goodbyes to a new friend, Anan(I think?), we add each other on Discord and probably say goodbye for the first and last time ever. It's strange, should I continue being friends, or do I just keep him a stranger? Kind of stuff I always think about when I have these sorts of encounters. I do appreciate him making the ride a bit more enjoyable however. My mate is already in Melbourne but I have no idea if he wants to explore the con together or we just do solo. I know I want to go solo but I don't mind exploring together if he would prefer that. Basically, I was open to anything and did not have any expectations for the con, except for high expectations from Steam. 

The con starts at 10am so I have a lot of time to just hang around. I couldn't check in until 2pm but they did allow bag drop offs, so that's what I did to spend the time, and just take my time and absorb the scenery. To the tram!

One thing I've noticed over the years, I genuinely cannot travel without Google Maps. This app is so perfect for organising trips, stating arrival times and best routes, even showing local areas to visit and eat at, there's nothing it can't do! I can't imagine not using it. I've always been a "prepare for the worst" types of people and generally do not like relying on technology if I don't need to, but I've relied on Google Maps for far too long that I don't know what I'd do without it! Thanks and curse google for making it so great. 

This was the first time I had ever used MyKi, the Opal equivalent for Melbourne. Every other time I had come to Melbourne, I would just walk everywhere or take the tram without tapping, most of the time I didn't have to because I was always generally in the free tram area. I kinda wanted to get the card as a keepsake but for the convenience I just used the Google Wallet app. Anyways, a funny coincidence happened, the first and only time this trip AND on my first tram when arriving in Melb, a bunch of MyKi officers hopped on my tram to check if people had tapped on. I'm so grateful past me was so diligent about being prepared for this trip, imagine the first thing when you arrive in a new city and you get fined lol. If that had happened to me I'd be so devasted, I bet alternative universe me fell for that, heh idiot. 

Anyways, here is the hostel I stayed at [Pint on Punt](https://maps.app.goo.gl/AJaq83cFHnejr2xZ9), a cute name for a bar on the street called Punt. I got this place because it was one of the cheapest options, and it also had free breakfast. But I'll be real, the only reason I wanted to go to this place was for the free breakfast, food is usually the biggest spend while travelling so ideally one less thing to spend on during my trip. While I wasn't the most money conscious, any place I can save on money would be appreciated by future me. I arrive right as they opened on the dot, and drop my stuff off and decide I may as well just head to the convention centre. It's only 8:00am by this point so I'm not sure what I'm gonna do until 10am. 

I take the tram back to Melbourne Convention Centre, arrive at like 8:30am and I head inside. One thing I wanted to know was if they properly checked the tickets. They mention on the site that you cannot re-sell these tickets, but like how were they gonna know anyways? Sure enough, I walk right in and they just have guards ensuring you're wearing it around your neck. Not that I'm gonna do this, or not that I condone this behaviour, but you could easily fake one of these things if you know what the ticket looks before hand. They even provide lanyards free of charge outside the venue, so like perhaps this is a fun little experiment to try next year, if I even decide to go? I think the hardest part will just be figuring out where to print on this type of plastic, to make sure it has the right amount of gloss. I was thinking just put paper, but I think it would have to be glossy to pull something like this off. 

Despite being an hour and a half early, there is already like hundreds of people arriving at the venue, and so I basically just follow the crowd into the entrance hall/queue area and this was a terrible mistake. Once you go in, you'll find it almost impossible to get out because they put everyone in like little boxes that they fill up one by one. I was so thirsty, tired, needing to piss and just wanted to sit down, but now I was stuck in a queue for one and half hours. But it's fine I guess, beats lining up later when it gets way more busier. Optimism!!! It wasn't half bad, there was a big screen where an MC would call up people to play some party games based on a spin the wheel, and the winner would go into the running to get a free PAX jacket. There were games like flappy bird, some doodle jump-esque game, ketchup song dance, etc. It's funny, they always got the same like 3 things every time and it was getting so tedious seeing them not know what the hell the ketchup song dance was and failing flappy bird on the first pipe because the browser would keep lagging lol. Also, on one of the selections for people, they asked for people who weren't from Australia and they brought up a buncha people. Most of them seemed believable, like coming from Asian countries or Europe to visit friends, but there were 2 people who said they were from America, some guy from North America who had NEVER been to a PAX before and PAX Australia was his first one? This guy is a bloody LIAR, I do not believe that for a minute, probably just wanted the chance to go up there. And then the guy from South America had also never been to any PAX before, but I'm willing to give the benefit of the doubt, I just don't understand why he would come to the Australia one first, perhaps they are visiting family or something? Beats me. 

Oh boy, it's count down time! The big screen couting down from 60, showing a bunch of popular games and strange stock images of the outdoors, as if to tell PAX goers to touch grass? I thought it was so strange to show those kinds of images lol, they were showing like images of being at the beach, buncha guys hanging outside in the open air at like the park or a forest or on the train, but then right as it was reaching 5 seconds it starts zooming out... and you wont believe my disappointment when I saw what was on screen... IT WAS A STEAM DECK and Gabe Newell welcomed us into PAX. Steam had got me, they hid their big announcement in the count down and I was genuinely so surprised and kinda hyped when I saw Gabe, but like all the mystique and exuberance had left me knowing that the Steam booth will not have anything else interesting besides Steam Decks and I had yet to even walk in. What am I to do now? Walk around I guess lol. 

Walking around PAX was less exciting this year for me, for the most part everything was pretty samey and besides a handful things. You can walk the convention floor in like 10 minutes. I was kinda bummed about there not being an e-sports showcase area. Last year they had like I think an e-sports arena where there were actual pro matches happening with casters and all that, so every time I was bored, had nothing to do or I was just tired, I would sit and watch the pro games as a nice little break. This time they had no such thing. I mean they had dodgeball to replace it, a big arena area (yeah actual dodgeball) but the seating area looked like it was reserved for potential players and the rest of the normies would have to stand to watch. Don't get me wrong, this was so fun to watch, but there was no place to just relax like last time and because I was a lot more exhausted than usual as I was walking somewhat up to 5+ hours without sitting down. Also, this time around there was a lot less free things you could get without actually participating and actually winning. I played a lot of Tekken at some of the booths where they had king of the hill kinda stuff, and also playing CS2, Val and League, I won so many useless goodies from winning games but if I had not done this I would have come back home empty handed. I think the best thing I got was a straight up webcam from the Rebulic of Gaming booth. I have yet to try it but it's free stuff is free stuff! I got a bunch of shirts, lanyards, bags, journals (why the hell are they giving this away), hats, keychains, pins and more shirts. I was kinda too tired to do anything today, coming into this event with 3 hours of sleep optimistically speaking, so I walked around and tried to find free stuff instead of trying any of the indie games (which was also a big reason why I wanted to come to PAX) because I was not in the mood to strike up a conversation. I signed up for Street Fighter and Tekken run by Couch Warriors but did not show up, I lined up a lot for booths to play games and troll in front of an audience, and caught up with a friend to walk around. 

I decided to end my PAX day a bit early because I'm really hungry and I'm tired and sleepy. I suggest we grab some food together since I haven't actually had breakfast or lunch yet and my friend tags along. However, my friend (let's just call him Jason from now on) is really insistent on showing me his airbnb, he keeps telling me there's some cool area we should check out and I'm thinking to myself I just want to eat I'm so hungry bro. But because he's so insistent it makes me curious so I let him guide the way. We arrive at probably the coolest building in Melbourne CBD and it's right next to the station, [Premier Tower](https://www.premiertower.com.au/). He tells me more about his place, they have a gym, spa, sauna, karaoke room, pool tables, ping pong tables, bbq area, etc, accessible by all the patrons inside the building locked behind swipe access. And because he's booking a bedroom in what seems to be a rich apartment complex, he inherently gets access. And you know, I'm jealous just hearing this because I'm about to stay in a hostel sharing a smelly bedroom with 3 other people and he get's a whole ass luxury experience and a cat on top of that. But comparison is the theif of joy, I think to myself, this is probably the next place I will be staying in the next time I'm in Melbourne lol. This cool little area he wants to show me is on the 46th floor of this apartment, and we go up... holy moly... one of the most gorgeious views of a city I've ever been in, and I don't even need to pay for it! I genuinely could not get over it. People get to live like this everyday? I am so baffled, so envious. This is what it means to be priviledged. We are so high up, and this floor has a 360 degree view of the whole city, one of the greatest things I've seen in a long time. I took a few photos which I can show once I get it developed (remind me to upload them if they aren't here by the time of reading).

We ended up exploring a few other general access floors, played a bit of pool, the karaoke machine used Crestron control panels for the TV and the audio system I thought was pretty cool, checked out the pool, the sauna, a bbq area and then we left. I think in the future I'll look into this place. It has everything; a private room (you technically share an apartment but Jason said he never saw the owners), awesome free amenities, central location to a lot of things and it's not too expensive. And then compare this to the drab hostel I'm staying at, it was kinda sad. I think the worst part is we're paying roughly the same price... but I'm paying for a unique experience in the end so it's not terrible. 

We ended up finding a Chinese place nearby called [Rice at Collins 595](https://maps.app.goo.gl/kUB77y2xfo6zAUqN9). It was like a coffee place renovated to fit a small kitchen and the seating was out in the lobby of what seemed like a business building. I had some bbq pork with rice which slaps as per usual. The workers were really kind, I was just browsing and the woman recommended I try the crispy pork which was freshly made, but I decided nahh I know what I want. People not being miserable in customer service I find is rare when you're in the CBD. The grandma working there looked like she ran the place, and I guess the hard working and customer friendly attitude was passed down. Much respect and definitely recommend.

Tummy full, I say my goodbyes to my mate and head back home. Although, I felt like I had been forgetting something important, and yeah it was buying the Coach jacket at Uniqlo. The closest Uniqlo on maps said it was all the way at the Emporium which is maybe a 20 minute walk in the other direction. It's was really important I buy this coach jacket and not because it looks cool or anything (but I does), but because I know the medium sizes are gonna sell out relatively quickly. That's usually how it goes with these sales, so I had to push myself and go out of my way to do this, despite being half dead at this point. I end up walking instead of taking the tram because it's fun to walk I guess. Anyways I arrive, it's a place I've always been to everytime I visit Melbourne so it's kind of refreshing, last time I came to this Uniqlo was to get the Final Fantasy shirts but they didn't even sell them there sadly. And funnily enough, I was let down a second time by this store and they did not have the black coach jackets at all, everything was sold out. Surely this is not the only Uniqlo in the city? Hahaha good one, the next closest Uniqlo is a train ride, not even a tram ride, outside of the city maybe 30+ minutes one way with a terrible route to getting back to the hotel. But you know what, more exploring! We get to experience the trains in Melbourne, an excuse to finally leave the CBD. 

The metro/trains felt strangely reminiscent of Japan; underground tunnels to enter, oddly clean yet has the worn feeling of the interior, train lines going over residential areas. Okay, maybe it wasn't exactly like Japan, but it gave me the same feeling of experience something so similar yet so different, it felt like I was in a different country! The trains were just your standard metro like train, similar to the Metro in Sydney but there are a few forward and backward facing seats. I like the colours they use, it's like a orange/blue combination, and orange dictating priority seats, the colour language speaks quite easily and found it fascinating. 

Once arrived, I would be taking a bus to the shopping centre that held this Uniqlo. Normally I would walk, since it is only like 10 minutes away but I wanted to try the bus. I had been waiting like 20 minutes and 4+ buses had arrived already and it was not my bus. I was a little confused because it had done like a rotation already and thought maybe they hadn't updated the timetable or something. Thinking about it, all the buses that show up here are bound to be heading the same direction, and so I just hopped on the next bus and I felt like a genius when I saw that it was arriving at my desired location. 

This place was absurdly boujee for it's strangely inaccessible location. The place is called [Chadstone - The Fashion Capital](https://maps.app.goo.gl/VS1SMZ3yFMJ3w35M6), which I guess answers my question why it's so huge and luxurious. There was like the poor half of the shopping centre which seemingly was there originally, and then the super upperclass shopping district with a huge ass beautiful area filled with clothes, perfume and I guess fashion brands built upon over time. Random thought, I feel like nowadays if you're into architecture you're living in the best day and age for experience really cool buildings, old and new. Anyways, arriving at Uniqlo I didn't even get time to do some exploring in the store because a nice lovely old lady asked if I needed any help, and she lead me to the coach jackets. To my surprise, theres nothing in medium... my heart almost sunk, but then I figured I'd ask for help because the app does say there is stock still available. I ask one of the workers and they pull out this cool device and was like "I'll handle this". He just waved it around the store and it would beep if the item he was looking for was close by, which I thought was genuinely so cool. I thought to myself how neat this technology is, RFID might be the way of the future. With RFID you have cool systems like theft protection, inventory management and one of the easiest checkouts so far. These guys really are ahead of the pack when it comes to efficiency, Japan that is. The guy manages to find one, I can't remember if he said it was the last one or not, but he said it was in the back hiding amongst other clothes, and relief fell upon me, I can finally rest and go home. 

Bus ride back to the station, train ride close to my hotel, and then bus directly outside the hotel. Buses are super strange here, theres no real-time tracking and they never rock up on time. I waited at the second bus stop for roughly 20 minutes with another person and she was also like "do you know if this bus is arriving?". I thought that maybe it was just stuck in traffic, but there was a decent flow of traffic both ways so that couldn't have been the problem. Well, waiting always pays off because it eventually arrived, but still, the bus comes every 15 minutes and one did not arrive for 20 minutes, does that mean we missed it, or that was the bus that was meant to arrive? I think both scenarios are kinda sad, because it means both of them did not arrive on time, be it early or late. 

This is the first time I'm actually arriving at the Hostel and meeting my neighbours for the weekend, so I was kind of anxious as I normally would. A few things I was worried aobut was where I was going to put my stuff (if they had lockers) and how I was going to break the ice. Rocking up to the hotel was already confusing, the door I dropped off my stuff was locked (I couldn't read, the reception counter had been closed) and so I walked in and asked the bartender if I could check in. The guy walks away and I thought he was going to open the door to the reception area so I walk outside, and I wait there for a minute and realised he wasn't coming so I went back inside. Already creating an awkward situation for myself. He tells me to sign in, enter my details and then gives me a key card which is bent. He tells me about curfew and what not, and leads me upstairs to this room on the side thats locked. As he had closed the door and locked it, I realised I still had to get my stuff, but it's chill I'll just come back later for it. 

Walking upstairs was kinda fascinating to me, a little adventure and a lot of people living their own worlds under the same roof. First thing I usually do when I enter a building like this is take in the surroundings. The floor was relatively clean, a few people lingering doing their own thing, and everyone seemed to acknowledge each other which was really cool. I would be greeted with a simple "yo" or "what's up", with rarely any small talk. It was around lunch time so a lot of people were eating in the common area. It was relatively small, there was like 3 seperate areas you could socialise in, within the hostel. Little dining area with 3 seats, a common social area that's in it's own room that had couches and I think a projector (I saw I think because I never really went inside the room to check, but it looked like it) and then the area in between these two rooms that had the tiny ass kitchen. My room was right next to the inbetween area so any time I would have to leave the room I would be met with too much action, overstimulating if you will. One thing that sucked was the fact that I didn't have any flip flops so it would be difficult for me to navigate this area without putting on my shoes or go bare foot, and so that would be my next quest, to get flip flops. Anyways, before I segway out of this, I gotta give my quick review of the place. 



[rory-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrXUf0Q7pUM
